---
layout: post
title: Benson
---

This past Friday, our project team (RJ, Tushar, Rahul, and myself = Niall), completed Project 1: Benson of Metis's intensive data science program.

First, a brief outline of Benson: the objective is, using the NYC MTA's subway turnstile data, and any supplemental data you deem fit, to optimize the performance of a "street team" of canvassers for a charitable organization, WomenTechWomenYes.

We started with the Subway data. RJ and Rahul had more experience using Pandas, which was the primary tool for most of our exploratory analysis, so they took lead on finding information on the relevant sub-slices of the turnstile dataset. However, we didn't want to restrict ourselves to the data that had been explicitly provided to us to use, or have too many people working on the same part of the problem, and thus potentially duplicating each other's work.

I decided that income-based data might make a good second-degree proxy for donation data; even if we assumed that the donation rate across income levels was equal, if people are donating similar percentages of their (disposable) income, it stands to reason that rich people would be likely to end up donating more money, thus, we'd have some reason to target higher-wealth neighborhoods in order to achieve our goal of long-run donation maximization.

So, I worked on finding and cleaning some supplementary economic data provided by the U.S. Census. I was able to obtain and clean a set of zip-code based economic data for New York State, then filter that down to zip codes in the city, and then look at where our highest-income neighborhoods matched with neighborhoods containing high-traffic subway stations. We also considered the factor of neighborhoods that had a significant technology sector presence; as this might more directly lead to a higher conversion rate for canvassers if they were able to target areas that were in the same industry.

The python notebook containing many of the results and much of the process are available on github [here](https://github.com/rjs2015/nyc16_ds9/blob/master/projects/01-benson/student_projects/p1_team3/MTA_team_3_Analysis.ipynb).

All in all it was an intense first week of the course, with lectures on how to use pandas (the primary tools used in our analysis) beginning just 2 days before we presented.
